[ADD] Fleet: new models doc (#9942)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/fleet/models.rst

==============
Vehicle models
==============

> Vehicle manufacturers have a variety of models they produce. When adding a vehicle to the fleet, it
> is important to specify the vehicle model being added.

Reviewer: For my own understanding, why is it important to specify the car model in Odoo? Just gonna make a guess:

```suggestion
When adding a vehicle to the fleet, specify the vehicle model to maintain records of vehicles in the fleet, such as specific details like maintenance schedules and parts compatibility.
```

Odoo comes with pre-configured car models from four major auto manufacturers: Audi, BMW, Mercedes,
and Opel.

If a vehicle model *other* than the pre-configured models from these manufacturers are part of a

> fleet, the model (and/or manufacturer) **must** be added to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fleet, the model (and/or manufacturer) **must** be :ref:`added <fleet/add-model>` to the database.
```

| A4    | Serie 5      | Class C   | Antara       |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
| A5    | Serie 6      |Class CL   | Astra        |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
| A6    | Serie 7      | Class CLS | AstraGTC     |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
| A7    | Serie Hybrid | Class E   | Combo Tour   |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
| A8    | Serie M      | Class GL  | Corsa        |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
| Q3    | Serie X      | Class GLK | Insignia     |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
| Q5    | Serie Z4     | Class M   | Meriva       |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
| Q7    |              | Class R   | Mokka        |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
| TT    |              | Class S   | Zafira       |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
|       |              | Class SLK | Zafira Tourer|
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+
|       |              | Class SLS |              |
+-------+--------------+-----------+--------------+

.. _fleet/add-model:

Add a new model
===============

> New vehicle models can easily be added to the database. To add a new model, navigate to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new vehicle model, navigate to
```

> :menuselection:`Fleet app --> Configuration --> Models: Models`. Click :guilabel:`New` and a
> vehicle model form loads. Enter the following information on the form. Be advised, some fields are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Fleet app --> Configuration --> Models: Models`. Click :guilabel:`New`, and in a
new vehicle model form, enter the following information on the form. Be advised, some fields are
```

specific to Belgian based companies, so not all fields or sections may be visible depending on the
location of the company.

.. image:: models/mini.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A new model form with the informatoin filled out for a Mini Cooper.

- :guilabel:`Model name`: enter the model name in the field.
- :guilabel:`Manufacturer`: select the manufacturer from the drop-down menu. If the manufacturer is

>   not configured, type in the manufacturer and then click :guilabel:`Create` or :guilabel:`Create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  not configured, type the manufacturer, and then click :guilabel:`Create` or :guilabel:`Create
```

  and edit..`.
- :guilabel:`Vehicle Type`: select one of two preconfigured vehicle types, either :guilabel:`Car` or
  :guilabel:`Bike`, from the drop-down menu. The vehicle types are hardcoded in Odoo and are
  integrated with the *Payroll* application since vehicles can be part of an employee's benefits.
  Adding additional vehicle types is not possible as it affects payroll.
- :guilabel:`Category`: select the category the vehicle is categorized under from the drop-down
  menu. To create a new category, type in the category and then click :guilabel:`Create (new
  category)`.

.. note::
   When the manufacturer is selected, the logo for the manufacturer will automatically load in the

>    image box in the top-right corner.

Reviewer: Since this relates to the Manufacturer field, how about moving this note block up to line 68?

Information tab
---------------

> 

Reviewer: Adding a quick summary of the contents of the tab to break up the headings. This is totally optional, and feel free to edit my suggestion to be more accurate/detailed, based on your knowledge!
```suggestion
In the Information tab, specify details about the car model, such as the car size and passenger number, cost settings (applicable to the Belgium localization only), and engine information.
```

Model
~~~~~

- :guilabel:`Seats Number`: enter how many passengers the vehicle can accommodate.
- :guilabel:`Doors Number`: enter the number of doors the vehicle has.
- :guilabel:`Color`: enter the color of the vehicle.
- :guilabel:`Model Year`: enter the year the vehicle was manufactured.
- :guilabel:`Trailer Hitch`: tick this box if the vehicle has a trailer hitch installed.

Salary
~~~~~~

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Salary` section only appears for Belgian-based companies, and only if the company
   has their localization setting set to Belgium. The cost values are all **monthly** with the
   exception of the :guilabel:`Catalog Value (VAT Incl.)`.

- :guilabel:`Can be requested`: tick this box if employees can request this model vehicle.
- :guilabel:`Catalog Value (VAT Incl.)`: enter the :abbr:`MSRP (Manufacturer's Suggested Retail
  Price)` for the vehicle at the time of purchase or lease.

> - :guilabel:`C02 fee`: this value is automatically calculated based on Belgian laws and regulations,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`C02 fee`: represents the carbon dioxide emission fee paid to the Belgian government. This value is automatically calculated based on Belgian laws and regulations,
```

  and cannot be modified. The value is based on the value entered in the :guilabel:`CO2 Emissions`
  field in the :guilabel:`Engine` section of the vehicle form.

.. important::
   Modifying the :guilabel:`CO2 Emissions` field will adjust the value in the :guilabel:`CO2 fee`
   field.

> - :guilabel:`Cost (Depreciated)`: enter the monthly cost for the vehicle, which appears in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Cost (Depreciated)`: enter the monthly vehicle cost, which appears in the
```

> - :guilabel:`Cost (Depreciated)`: enter the monthly cost for the vehicle, which appears in the

Reviewer: also this is so interesting to learn about how the Belgian employees get a car and how it affects their salary! O:

Author: I am still flabbergasted at all the rules and fees and taxes, etc, in Europe for all of this

>   salary configurator that is available to a future employee when they are offered a job position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  salary configurator for future employees.
```

  figure is depreciated over time according to local tax laws. The :guilabel:`Cost (Depreciated)`
  does not depreciate automatically on the *vehicle model*, it only depreciates based on the
  *contract* linked to a specific vehicle and not on the general model.
- :guilabel:`Total Cost (Depreciated)`: this value is the :guilabel:`Cost (Depreciated)` and the
  :guilabel:`C02 fee` fields combined, and also is depreciated over time.

Engine
~~~~~~

- :guilabel:`Fuel Type`: select the type of fuel the vehicle uses from the drop-down menu. The
  options are :guilabel:`Diesel`, :guilabel:`Gasoline`, :guilabel:`Hybrid Diesel`, :guilabel:`Hybrid
  Gasoline`, :guilabel:`Plug-in Hybrid Diesel`, :guilabel:`Plug-in Hybrid Gasoline`,
  :guilabel:`CNG`, :guilabel:`LPG`, :guilabel:`Hydrogen`, or :guilabel:`Electric`.
- :guilabel:`CO2 Emissions`: enter the average carbon dioxide emissions the vehicle produces in
  grams per kilometer (g/km). This information is provided by the car manufacturer.
- :guilabel:`CO2 Standard`: enter the standard amount of carbon dioxide in grams per kilometer
  (g/km) for a similar sized vehicle.

> - :guilabel:`Transmission`: select the transmission type from the drop-down menu, either
>   :guilabel:`Manual` or :guilabel:`Automatic`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Transmission`: select :guilabel:`Manual` or :guilabel:`Automatic` transmission type from the drop-down menu.
```

- :guilabel:`Power`: if the vehicle is electric or hybrid, enter the power the vehicle uses in
  kilowatts (kW).
- :guilabel:`Horsepower`: enter the vehicle's horsepower in this field.
- :guilabel:`Horsepower Taxation`: enter the amount that is taxed based on the size of the vehicle's
  engine. This is determined by local taxes and regulations, and varies depending on the location.
  It is recommended to check with the accounting department to ensure this value is correct.
- :guilabel:`Tax Deduction`: this field auto-populates according to the engine specifications, and
  cannot be modified. The percentage is based on the localization settings and local tax laws.

Vendors tab
-----------

> Vehicle specific vendors, such as car dealerships, are not listed separately from other vendors. The
> vendors that a vehicle can be purchased from also appear in the list of vendors used by the
> *Purchase* app.

Reviewer: Totally optional suggestion! I wasn't really sure what this feature was for, and i wanted to try to make it more clear. Feel free to ignore/make changes if it's wrong!
```suggestion
Specify the vendor(s) a vehicle can be purchased from in this tab. With proper setup, requests for quotations for vehicles can be easily created through Odoo's *Purchase* app.
```

The vendors the vehicle can be purchased from may be added in this tab. To add a vendor, click

> :guilabel:`Add`, and a pop-up loads with a list of all the vendors currently in the database. Select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Add`, which opens a pop-up window with a list of all the vendors currently in the database. Select
```

the vendor to add by clicking the checkbox next to the vendor name, then click :guilabel:`Select`.
There is no limit to the number of vendors that can be added to this list.

> If a vendor is not in the database, add a vendor by clicking :guilabel:`New`, and a vendor form
> loads. Enter the information in the vendor tab, then click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a vendor is not in the database, add a vendor by clicking :guilabel:`New`. In a new vendor form,
enter the information in the vendor tab, then click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the
```

  Adding additional vehicle types is not possible as it affects payroll.
- :guilabel:`Category`: select the category the vehicle is categorized under from the drop-down
  menu. To create a new category, type in the category and then click :guilabel:`Create (new
  category)`.

Information tab
---------------

In the Information tab, specify details about the car model, such as the car size, passenger
capability, cost settings (applicable to the Belgium localization only), and engine information.

Model
~~~~~

- :guilabel:`Seats Number`: enter how many passengers the vehicle can accommodate.
- :guilabel:`Doors Number`: enter the number of doors the vehicle has.
- :guilabel:`Color`: enter the color of the vehicle.
- :guilabel:`Model Year`: enter the year the vehicle was manufactured.
- :guilabel:`Trailer Hitch`: tick this box if the vehicle has a trailer hitch installed.

Salary
~~~~~~

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Salary` section only appears for Belgian-based companies, and only if the company
   has their localization setting set to Belgium. The cost values are all **monthly** with the
   exception of the :guilabel:`Catalog Value (VAT Incl.)`.

> - :guilabel:`Can be requested`: tick this box if employees can request this model vehicle.

Author: Yes- if they are offered a vehicle at all, this determines which ones they can select. I'll clarify!

  assigned to the vehicle. This figure is depreciated over time according to local tax laws. The
  :guilabel:`Cost (Depreciated)` does not depreciate automatically on the *vehicle model*, it only
  depreciates based on the *contract* linked to a specific vehicle and not on the general model.
- :guilabel:`Total Cost (Depreciated)`: this value is the :guilabel:`Cost (Depreciated)` and the
  :guilabel:`C02 fee` fields combined, and also is depreciated over time.

Engine
~~~~~~

- :guilabel:`Fuel Type`: select the type of fuel the vehicle uses from the drop-down menu. The
  options are :guilabel:`Diesel`, :guilabel:`Gasoline`, :guilabel:`Hybrid Diesel`, :guilabel:`Hybrid
  Gasoline`, :guilabel:`Plug-in Hybrid Diesel`, :guilabel:`Plug-in Hybrid Gasoline`,
  :guilabel:`CNG`, :guilabel:`LPG`, :guilabel:`Hydrogen`, or :guilabel:`Electric`.
- :guilabel:`CO2 Emissions`: enter the average carbon dioxide emissions the vehicle produces in
  grams per kilometer (g/km). This information is provided by the car manufacturer.
- :guilabel:`CO2 Standard`: enter the standard amount of carbon dioxide in grams per kilometer

>   (g/km) for a similar sized vehicle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (g/km) for a similar-sized vehicle.
```

> - :guilabel:`Transmission`: select :guilabel:`Manual` or :guilabel:`Automatic` transmission type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Transmission`: select :guilabel:`Manual` or :guilabel:`Automatic` transmission
```

  from the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Power`: if the vehicle is electric or hybrid, enter the power the vehicle uses in
  kilowatts (kW).
- :guilabel:`Horsepower`: enter the vehicle's horsepower in this field.

> - :guilabel:`Horsepower Taxation`: enter the amount that is taxed based on the size of the vehicle's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Horsepower Taxation`: enter the amount that is taxed, based on the size of the vehicle's
```

  engine. This is determined by local taxes and regulations, and varies depending on the location.
  It is recommended to check with the accounting department to ensure this value is correct.

> - :guilabel:`Tax Deduction`: this field auto-populates according to the engine specifications, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Tax Deduction`: this field auto-populates, according to the engine specifications, and
```

>   cannot be modified. The percentage is based on the localization settings and local tax laws.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  **cannot** be modified. The percentage is based on the localization settings and local tax laws.
```

Vendors tab
-----------

Specify the vendors a vehicle can be purchased from in this tab. With proper setup, requests for
quotations for vehicles can be easily created through Odoo's *Purchase* app.

> The vendors the vehicle can be purchased from may be added in this tab. To add a vendor, click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a vendor, click
```

> :guilabel:`Add`, which opens a pop-up window with a list of all the vendors currently in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Add`, which opens an :guilabel:`Add: Vendors` pop-up window, with a list of all the vendors currently in the
```

> database. Select the vendor to add by clicking the checkbox next to the vendor name, then click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
database. Add a vendor by ticking the checkbox next to the vendor name, then click
```

:guilabel:`Select`. There is no limit to the number of vendors that can be added to this list.

> If a vendor is not in the database, add a vendor by clicking :guilabel:`New`. In a new vendor form,
> enter the information in the vendor tab, then click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the vendor and
> close the window, or :guilabel:`Save & New` to add the current vendor and create another new vendor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a vendor is not in the database, add a vendor by clicking :guilabel:`New`. 

In the :guilabel:`Create Vendors` form that appears, enter the necessary information, then click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the vendor, or click :guilabel:`Save & New` to add the current vendor and create another new vendor.
```
I'm not seeing a 'Vendor' tab...
![Screenshot 2024-06-27 122459](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/73958186/72c37814-69f4-404e-b799-c43bb448d12e)

.. image:: models/vendor.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Vendor form to fill out when adding a new vendor.

.. _fleet/categories:

Model Category
==============

To best organize a fleet, it is recommended to have vehicle models housed under a specific category,

> to more easily see what kinds of vehicles are in the fleet. Model categories are set on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to easily see what kinds of vehicles are in the fleet. Model categories are set on the
```

:ref:`vehicle model form <fleet/add-model>`.

> Odoo does **not** come with any models preconfigured; all models must be added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Odoo does **not** come with any models preconfigured; all models **must** be added.
```

To view any models currently set up in the database, navigate to :menuselection:`Fleet app -->
Configuration --> Models: Categories`. All models are displayed in a list view.

Add a new model category
------------------------

> To add a new category, click the :guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner. A new entry line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a new category, click the :guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner of the :guilabel:`Categories` page. A new entry line
```

appears at the bottom of the list. Type in the new category, then click :guilabel:`Save` to save the

> entry.

Reviewer 2: I totally see the 'Save' button appear, but when I clicked away the new entry stayed, as well. So, that might be worth mentioning...

To reorganize how the categories appear in the list, click on the :icon:`oi-draggable`

> :guilabel:`(draggable)` icon to the left of the category name to be moved, and drag the line to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`(draggable)` icon to the left of any desired category name, and drag the line to the
```

desired position.

The order of the list does not affect the database in any way. However, it may be preferable to view

> the vehicle categories in a specific order, for example, by size, or the numbers of passengers the
> vehicle can carry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the vehicle categories in a specific order.
```

==============
Vehicle models
==============

When adding a vehicle to the fleet, specify the vehicle model to maintain updated records, which
keeps track of specific details, like maintenance schedules and parts compatibility.

Odoo comes with preconfigured car models from four major auto manufacturers: Audi, BMW, Mercedes,
and Opel.

If a new vehicle model joins the fleet, and it is not one of the preconfigured models from these

> manufacturers, the model (and/or manufacturer) **must** be :ref:`added to the
> database<fleet/add-model>`.

Reviewer 3: Need a space :)
```suggestion
manufacturers, the model (and/or manufacturer) **must** be :ref:`added to the database
<fleet/add-model>`.
```

  **cannot** be modified. The percentage is based on the localization settings and local tax laws.

Vendors tab
-----------

Specify the vendors a vehicle can be purchased from in this tab. With proper setup, requests for
quotations for vehicles can be easily created through Odoo's *Purchase* app.

To add a vendor, click :guilabel:`Add`, which opens an :guilabel:`Add: Vendors` pop-up window, with
a list of all the vendors currently in the database. Add a vendor by ticking the checkbox next to
the vendor name, then click :guilabel:`Select`. There is no limit to the number of vendors that can
be added to this list.

If a vendor is not in the database, add a vendor by clicking :guilabel:`New` in the bottom-left of
the :guilabel:`Add: Vendors` pop-up window. In the :guilabel:`Create Vendors` form that appears,
enter the necessary information, then click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add the vendor, or click
:guilabel:`Save & New` to add the current vendor and create another new vendor.

.. image:: models/vendor.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Vendor form to fill out when adding a new vendor.

.. _fleet/categories:

> Model Category

Reviewer 3: Sentence case this heading please :)
```suggestion
Model category
```
